Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I'd like to talk about the Singleton versus dependency injection.
We talked about dependency injection in a previous lecture.
You should have noticed in the first lecture on Ann Singleton that dependency injection is very similar
so there's some discussion in the software community on when you should utilize a singleton versus when
you should utilize Dependency Injection dependency injection can actually be used in replacement of
a singleton although the scenario is is somewhat specific because the Singleton does have some disadvantages.
There are some opportunities to use dependency injection.
So right now we know from previous lectures that dependency injection is a technique whereby one object
supplies the dependencies of another object.
It enables you to replace dependencies without changing the class that uses them.
Remember we had that lecture where we basically said there was a dependency between high and low level
classes.
Dependency inversion gets rid of the dependency between those classes by having an abstract interface
but there's still that dependency of the creation of the instance.
And so with dependency injection you can get rid of that dependency of the creation of the instance.
It can also be used to avoid statics and this is one of the most common reasons to use dependency injection
because you don't use a static member object and you often do use a static member object and a singleton.
We know that singletons only insure one instance of an object right.
So we know what a singleton is we know what Dependency Injection is when you use dependency injection.
Typically what you'll do is you're using either constructor or a setter injection to pass around a single
object.
We went all the way through those examples where we created an instance and then we injected it using
a setter or a constructor to set the instance in that class.
So you have the injector create a single object and then inject a view of the constructor the setter
of any dependent objects you remove that dependency it implements a singleton with less dependencies.
That's basically what the Dependency Injection is doing.
So some of the dependencies a singleton have that we mentioned previously with the disadvantages are
that Singleton create these hidden dependencies.
Right because they're readily available throughout the code base they're overused.
I mentioned that previously and since there's a reference it's not completely transparent when passing
the different methods it becomes difficult because of track.
So there are dependencies and disadvantages with the singleton.
They also hinder unit testing.
We mentioned that having issues with testable code because it's hard with that tight coupling to get
a fully functional class without adding some dedication to a singleton and really it's because of the
use of the statics the use of statics in the Singleton implementation make it very hard to test.
So now the question becomes Can Dependency Injection solve the disadvantages of single pin patterns
introduction of new dependencies.
Can the Dependency Injection principle reduce or eliminate this dependency.
That's really the question and the answer is it really depends on the situation in some cases Dependency
Injection is preferred over singletons but not in all cases and that's why we still focus on the Singleton
design pattern in this class because the Singleton design pattern is still used widely and it still
is applicable to certain situations.
However having said that there may be times when you want to use dependency injection over the Singleton.
And so when would you use dependency injection over the Singleton Well when you are software to be under
you in a test then it's much easier to write unit tests for your code when using dependency injection
there's less coupling.
Now that you might say well that pretty much sums it up because I always want to write unit tests so
I might as well always use dependency injection.
Well again that's not always the case it depends on again the situation.
Now if your software needs to be on a unit test it is easier with dependency injection but it's not
impossible with Singleton.
Other times when you want to use the eye over the Singleton when you want to avoid using statics again
the use of statics static member variables static methods makes it harder for your code to get under
test and Singleton's use quite a bit of statics.
We're not going to go into details why it necessarily makes it harder but it does make it harder.
You also want to use DIY over the Singleton when you have a non stable dependency a non stable dependency
is a dependency which refers to or affects the global state such as an external service a file system
or database in these cases it's often good practice to inject that dependency to the dependent class.
As opposed to using a singleton.
It helps the class explicitly specify everything it needs in order to perform properly.
So when you have some non stable dependency some external dependency such as a database something outside
then it is probably better to create that object outside and then inject it through the object that
needs it has that dependency through the constructor or the setter external dependencies.
That's when you want to use the AI.
So using the IO singletons is mostly but not entirely about testing.
That's the main reason.
But there are these issues with statics and non stable dependent.
Sometimes you just do not want a singleton.
It's just more flexible when you don't have the singleton and so you would use the AI when when you
want to use a singleton over dependency injection.
There are still our dependencies which are better represented using a singleton so there's no way that
you can say that you should never use a singleton.
There still are situations and being dependencies are dependencies which span across multiple classes
and often multiple layers.
The single point in pattern is better suited to handle this than then dependency injection.
Mainly because with dependency injection you have to pass this object all over to all these multiple
classes.
Right so you do a ton of passing you'd have a ton of methods that take the object needed to pass it
all around and that can be cumbersome.
A good example of this is if you had a single you'd want to use a singleton over dependency injection
and a logger service.
If you have a lot of activities throughout your codebase that are using logging it's just not practical
to pass this logger instance as a dependency and inject it in every single class that needs it because
every class pretty much does need it.
So if you have a class that every class has the same dependency you probably want to use a singleton
and not dependency injection just because of the practicality of passing it all over the place.
It's important to keep a balance between the dependencies represented as singletons and the ones using
the dependency injection principles if a dependency is ambient meaning that it's used by a ton of classes
multiple layers.
You want to use a singleton because again it's just not practical to be injecting this object to so
many different classes otherwise you can inject it into the dependent classes.
Class is usually in Dependency Injection principle to avoid statics and to have better capability for
unit testing.
If you don't have a lot of class classes then you're probably use dependency injection and so I wanted
to just provide a quick overview because there is some debate when we should use Singleton when we should
use dependency injection.
Hopefully it's clearer now that Singleton has its place in certain situations mainly when you have a
lot more classes and a lot more dependencies and dependency injection also has its place mainly when
you have the use of statics and when you want to get things under unit testing.
Thank you.